Document debugging antrea controller/agent API server (#510)
vmware-tanzu/antrea: docs/troubleshooting.md

persistent storage of the corresponding node (i.e. the node on which the Pod is
scheduled), under `/var/log/antrea/openvswitch`.

## Accessing the antrea-controller API

antrea-controller runs as a Deployment, exposes its API via a Service and
registers an APIService to aggregate into the Kubernetes API. To access the

> antrea-controller API, you need to know the address of it and have credentials

Reviewer: s/you need to know the address of it and have credentials/you need to know its address and have the credentials

Author: done

> to access it. There are multiple ways you can do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to access it. There are multiple ways you can do it:
```

Author: done

> ### Using antctl

Reviewer: thanks for giving me a reason to include the antctl binaries in the 0.5.0 release :)

> Typically, `antctl` handles locating and authenticating when it runs in an

Reviewer: what do you mean by "locating" here?

Author: updated to "`antctl` handles locating the Kubernetes API server and authenticating when it runs in an environment with kubeconfig set up.", how about it?

environment with kubeconfig set up. Same as `kubectl`, `antctl` looks for a
file named config in the $HOME/.kube directory. You can specify other

> kubeconfig files by setting the `--kubeconfig` flag.

Reviewer: independent of this PR, but does `antctl` support the `KUBECONFIG` env variable as well?

Author: It doesn't support yet, we should do it too to make antctl can run anywhere kubectl env is well configured.

> For example, you can view internal NetworkPolicy with this command:

Reviewer: s/internal NetworkPolicy/internal NetworkPolicy objects
or
s/internal NetworkPolicy/internal NetworkPolicies
?

Author: done

```
antctl get network-policy
```

### Using kubectl proxy

> As the antrea-controller API is aggregated into the Kubernetes API, you can

Reviewer: suggestion to rephrase the first sentence:
As the antrea-controller API is aggregated into the Kubernetes API, you can access it through the Kubernetes API using the appropriate URL paths.

Author: done

access the specific paths of the latter one. The following command runs
`kubectl` in a mode where it acts as a reverse proxy for the Kubernetes API and
handles authenticating.
```
# Start the proxy in the background
kubectl proxy &
# Access the antrea-controller API path
curl 127.0.0.1:8001/apis/networking.antrea.tanzu.vmware.com
```

### Directly accessing the antrea-controller API

If you want to directly access the antrea-controller API, you need to get the

> address of it and pass an authentication token when accessing it, like this:

Reviewer: s/address of it/its address

Author: done

```

> # Get the antrea service address

Reviewer: just a note that I verified the provided commands here and they work fine

ANTREA_SVC=$(kubectl get service antrea -n kube-system -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}')
# Get the token value of antctl account, you can use any service accounts that have permissions to antrea API.
TOKEN=$(kubectl get secrets -n kube-system -o jsonpath="{.items[?(@.metadata.annotations['kubernetes\.io/service-account\.name']=='antctl')].data.token}"|base64 --decode)
# Access antrea API with TOKEN
curl --insecure --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" https://$ANTREA_SVC/apis
```

## Accessing the antrea-agent API

> antrea-agent runs as DaemonSet Pod on each Node, exposes its API via a local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
antrea-agent runs as a DaemonSet Pod on each Node and exposes its API via a local
```

Author: done

> endpoint. There are two ways you can access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endpoint. There are two ways you can access it:
```

Author: done

### Using antctl

> To use `antctl` to access the antrea-agent API, you need to get into the

Reviewer: s/you need to get into the/you need to exec into the

Author: done

> antrea-agent container first. `antctl` is embedded in the image so can be used

Reviewer: so **it** can be used

Author: done

directly.

> For example, you can view internal NetworkPolicy of an agent with this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can view the internal NetworkPolicy objects for a specific agent with this command:
```

Author: done

```
# Get into the antrea-agent container

> kubectl exec -it antrea-agent-kq8cf -n kube-system -c antrea-agent bash

Reviewer: `s/antrea-agent-kq8cf/<antrea-agent Pod name>`

Author: done

persistent storage of the corresponding node (i.e. the node on which the Pod is
scheduled), under `/var/log/antrea/openvswitch`.

## Accessing the antrea-controller API

antrea-controller runs as a Deployment, exposes its API via a Service and
registers an APIService to aggregate into the Kubernetes API. To access the
antrea-controller API, you need to know its address and have the credentials
to access it. There are multiple ways in which you can access the API:

### Using antctl

Typically, `antctl` handles locating the Kubernetes API server and

> authenticating when it runs in an environment with kubeconfig set up. Same as

Reviewer 2: authentication?

Author: Done

`kubectl`, `antctl` looks for a file named config in the $HOME/.kube directory.
You can specify other kubeconfig files by setting the `--kubeconfig` flag.

For example, you can view internal NetworkPolicy objects with this command:
```
antctl get network-policy
```

### Using kubectl proxy

As the antrea-controller API is aggregated into the Kubernetes API, you can
access it through the Kubernetes API using the appropriate URL paths. The
following command runs `kubectl` in a mode where it acts as a reverse proxy for

> the Kubernetes API and handles authenticating.

Reviewer 2: think "authentication" here as well

Author: Done

# Get the antrea service address
ANTREA_SVC=$(kubectl get service antrea -n kube-system -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}')
# Get the token value of antctl account, you can use any service accounts that have permissions to antrea API.
TOKEN=$(kubectl get secrets -n kube-system -o jsonpath="{.items[?(@.metadata.annotations['kubernetes\.io/service-account\.name']=='antctl')].data.token}"|base64 --decode)
# Access antrea API with TOKEN
curl --insecure --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" https://$ANTREA_SVC/apis
```

## Accessing the antrea-agent API

antrea-agent runs as a DaemonSet Pod on each Node and exposes its API via a
local endpoint. There are two ways you can access it:

### Using antctl

To use `antctl` to access the antrea-agent API, you need to exec into the
antrea-agent container first. `antctl` is embedded in the image so it can be
used directly.

For example, you can view the internal NetworkPolicy objects for a specific
agent with this command:
```
# Get into the antrea-agent container
kubectl exec -it <antrea-agent Pod name> -n kube-system -c antrea-agent bash
# View the agent's NetworkPolicy
antctl get network-policy
```

### Directly accessing the antrea-agent API

> If you want to directly access the antrea-agent API, you need to login into

Reviewer 2: "login into" -> "log into" or "log in to"

Author: Done
